3406 ab testing architecture docs (#2586)
simpledotorg/simple-server: doc/arch/016-ab-testing.md

## Decision

We will develop a framework for testing different messages, message delivery dates, and message delivery cadences.

That framework will be able to run experiments for both patients who have upcoming appointments as well as patients who do not because they have not visited their clinic recently.

Patients who have appointments scheduled during the experiment date range will be referred to here as as "active patients".

Patients who last visited the clinic 35-365 days ago will be referred to here as "stale patients". We chose 35 days because most patients are expected to return to clinic monthly so a patient who hasn't been into clinic in over 35 days is probably late, and we chose 365 days as a cutoff because patients who haven't been to clinic in over a year are considered lost to follow up.

Those two types of experiments will require process differences. When the patient has an upcoming appointment, the reminders must be sent relative to the appointment date. Messages can be sent before, on, or after the appointment date.

> That doesn't make sense for patients who do not have upcoming appointments. Messages for stale patients will start on the same day the patient is added to the experiment. There are many patients who fall into this category, and we don't want to risk driving too many patients back to care at once and overwhelming clinics. To mitigate that possibility, we will add 10,000 patients per day to the experiment and schedule their reminders to be sent starting on the day they were added to the experiment. Because patients can receive no reminders, a single reminder, or a series of reminders, the actual number of reminders sent on any given day may exceed 10,000.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Messaging for stale patients will run on a continual daily basis during the experiment. This is to stagger the messages over the experiment time so as to not overwhelm clinics with many patients coming to a clinic on the same day.  We will add a random batch of stale patients per day (currently 10,000) to the experiment and schedule them based on the messaging templates configured in the experiment.
```

> In both types of experiments, patients will be randomly placed into treatment groups. Treatment groups will define the message texts, number of messages, and when to send the messages. Test patients will not receive the pre-existing text message sent three days after they miss an appointment. Control group patients will receive no messages at all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In both types of experiments, patients will be randomly placed into treatment groups. Treatment groups will define the message texts, number of messages, and when to send the messages. Patients in an experiment will not receive the standard missed visit reminder that is sent three days after a scheduled appointment. Control group patients will receive no messages at all.
```

trying to clarify this point

## Patient Selection Criteria

Simple servers are hosted by country and the selection pool will incude all patients on the server, so all patients in the experiment country will be potentially eligible.

All patients must meet the following criteria for inclusion:
- at least 18 years old
- hypertensive
- has a phone capable of receiving text messages. We verify this via Exotel.

> - is not in an ongoing experiment or one that ended within the past 14 days.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- is not in an ongoing experiment or one that ended recently
```

less about implementation, more about the intention

Messages will be localized for the patient based on the state of their assigned facility. We will use the facility address instead of the patient's address because it's more likely to be valid. The language mapping logic can be found in `app/models/facility.rb`.

Experiment messages have been translated into the following languages:

Bangladesh:
Bangla

Ethiopia:
Amharic
Oromo
Somali
Tigrinya

India:
Bengali
Hindi
Kannada
Marathi
Punjabi
Tamil
Telugu

## Notification window

We want to ensure that we only send notifications during appropriate hours, so all notifications are scheduled to be sent during the next messaging window (see `Communication.next_messaging_time`). We initially send messages through WhatsApp or Imo, then fall back to SMS. If the callback from WhatsApp/Imo tells us the message failed, we schedule the message to resend either immediately or during the messaging window tomorrow.

Because these experiments will dramatically increase the number of notifications being sent daily, we are expanding the notifications window. Currently, the window is from 10am-4pm IST. Later experiments will likely test sending messages at different times of day.

> ## Consequences

Author: Valid points, especially re: rate limits. I'll work on it.
